#summary Lets get started with the PSS Syntax........ <<<<<<<<<< START HERE
#labels Featured,Phase-Manual

= Introduction =

We will cover: <br />
- What is a Syntax? <br />
- Starting and Finishing Tags <br />
- Basic output to browser <br />

= Details =

*What is a Syntax?*

A Syntax is the letters, words and characters you use to tell the script what to do. It'll become fairly familiar as you read on.

*Starting and Finishing Tags*

_Nb: Ensure you have read the readme included in the download._

Open up your first.pss file that you have uploaded. 9If you haven't got this, create a file called "first.pss"

Every .pss file must being with the following line,

{{{
BeginPss;
}}}

and must end with,

{{{
EndPss;
}}}

So our file will look like this,

{{{
BeingPss;


EndPss;
}}}

Simple!

*Basic output to browser*

When you goto this page in your web browser (http://yoursite.com/first.pss) it's not going to show anything. So whenever we want to show something to the browser, or "output it to the browser" we do this,

{{{
BeginPss;

output 'Hello World!';

EndPss;
}}}

Anything you enclose in the apostrophes will be "outputted"

A command mistake by newbies is failing to escape apostrophes.

{{{
BeginPss;

output 'Santa, "Haven't you been good?"';

EndPss;
}}}

The code above will output some horrible "Parse Error." Here's how to get around it.

{{{
BeginPss;

output 'Santa, "Haven\'t you been good?"';

EndPss;
}}}

You notice I have placed a backslash by the apostrophe. That's because I want pss to show it. If I didn't put the apostrophe there, pss would think I was trying to end what I was outputting.

You'll have to do this for any instance the apostrophe is inside the output tag. Example,

{{{
BeginPss;

output 'Santa, "Haven\'t you been good? This Christmas. I know you\'ve been good. Because I\'ve been checking my list."';

EndPss;
}}}

Next lesson: [SyntaxComments]