#summary Learn the fundamentals... if and else
#labels Phase-Manual

= Introduction =

We will cover: <br />
- What are If/else staments? <br />
- Learn if / else statements <br />

= Details =

*What are If/else staments?*

If and else statements are the fundamental part of any dynamic content. What these do is simply english. If something equals something, show this, or else show this.

*Learn if / else statements*

Ok, so first we're going to do a basic if/else statement.

In this statement out expression will be, "if the variable name equals Jamie show this"

{{{
BeginPss;

name = 'Jamie';

	if name == 'Jamie' do;

		output 'Hello '. name .'';
		
	endif;

EndPss;

}}}

Let's go over that just a bit deeper. 

name = 'jamie'
This line is simply setting our varible (see, [SyntaxVariables])

if name == 'Jamie' do;
This line is simply checking, if name equals 'Jamie' do this

_Nb: You'll notice in an if statement, we have used a two = signs!_

{{{
BeginPss;

name = 'Jamie';

correct = 'Jamie';

	if name == correct do;

		output 'Hello '. name .'';
		
	endif;

EndPss;
}}}

If we want to check two variables with each other, we do that ^^

So, what if the name wasn't jamie? It would leave a blank screen right?? Lets fix that! We're going to insert an else statement, as follows,

{{{
BeginPss;

name = 'Michael';

	if name == 'Jamie' do;

		output 'Hello '. name .'';
		
	else;
	
		output 'Hello you!';
		
	endif;

EndPss;
}}}

Try changing the name so it is Jamie again.

And that is if and else statements.
